RMH/CUS1166 Software Engineering Project


Right now, room requests are made by hospital social workers. They fax in a request for a family, with dates. The room coordinator picks up the requests, goes to third party software, and allocated a room. Then, a confirmation is faxed back to the social workers.  This obviously means there is a time lag, which is a problem because families are often very concerned as to whether they will get a room, and discharges from the hospital may happen unexpectedly. Also, there are frequently revisions to the requests – a kid may end up inpatient more days than planned for, or a treatment may be delayed or moved up.
Therefore, we will be building a website that can be accessed by the social workers, the room reservation coordinator, and families. Each of these user groups will have different privileges and interface. The website will be hosted on a Go Daddy server. It will be implemented in PHP5.2 and use a MySQL backend.
When a social worker wants to make a reservation, he or she will access the site from a hospital computer, and will sign in with a password. The system will recognize that this is a social worker, and bring up a social worker menu. One of the options will be to make a room reservation. The social worker will fill in information about the family and the patient, as well as the requested dates. If the family is already in the system, those fields will be prefilled, although the social worker can make changes. Once the reservation is requested, the information will be stored in the database, and an email will be sent to the room coordinator. The request action must also be logged, with the social worker’s name.
NOTES on room requests: The end date is often simply an estimate. For families of patients in longterm treatment, it may be specified as the end of the month, and then new requests are entered as the month comes to an end.  Also, the name of the social worker must be recorded along with the request.
Other functionality in the social worker menu: Social workers can retrieve any requests they have made, to see if it has been confirmed, and also to make changes.  Social workers can set their own information as well. Social worker information that is stored includes name, hospital, and email address at a minimum.  We also need to record if the SW wants email notification when a room request is confirmed. Social workers should be able to change their own passwords, and also retrieve forgotten passwords. We need to verify if any additional information is needed. Finally, social workers can generate reports on the confirmed requests in a given time period. This report will have a specific format.
Question: If a change is made to a family profile, for example, their address, should this be visible in all requests? For example, if an old request is viewed, would the viewer see the old address or the new one?
The old address should be still visible until the change has been made in the reservation software and the staff member confirms it on the site.
RMH staff members who do room coordination can also log in. Staff members can retrieve requests by an id number (which is contained in the email) or can simply see a list of all pending requests and select from that.  The staff members currently use third party software to allocate rooms, so they still need to copy the information over from the room request system. Once the room is reserved, the staff member will indicate in some manner that the request is confirmed. An email will go to the social worker who made the request if the social worker wants email notification. A confirmation number is also generated and attached to the request in the database. The specific room is not recorded, though.  The staff member’s name must also now be attached to the request in the database. In addition, if the family has provided an email address in their profile, an email should be sent to them which contains the confirmation number, information about RMH, and forms that need to be filled out. We may also want to generate a special URL that the family could use to view their profile from the database, in case they want to update it themselves. The forms could also be accessible at the URL so that they could be filled out online.
If the request cannot be accommodated, the staff member must indicate that, and the request will be marked as denied. Again, the staff member name must be recorded with the request, and if the social worker wants notification by email, that should be sent. 
Question: if the request cannot be accommodated, should that information be sent to the family?
Yes, an e-mail should be sent to the family.
Question: if some of the requested days could be accommodated, should the staff member be able to indicate that?
Yes!
RMH staff members also have profiles that they can update themselves, so that must be an option on the page that they see. And they need to generate reports for RMH, so that will be one more option.
Question: can any other RMHers log in, and will they see the same thing or something different?
Yes!  That needs to be updated in our reservation database by hand (until something can be developed to connect the two pieces of software).
Families can access the site as well, but only through the special URL which is randomly generated. Families will see a form that shows their profile information, useful information about RMH and NYC, and forms that they need to fill out. The profile information may be updated.
Finally, there must be an administrative page that can be accessed by staff members at RMH. This page will allow users to be added. We need to determine exactly what will be on this page, and who can access it.
Additional Notes:  This page should be easily configurable by the staff (possibly using a WYSIWYG editor).  
Also it would be nice to have a notes field for the reservation itself to document and note to staff/social workers/families about the reservation.  This should include a date and time.